Cardfight Vanguard
The benefits of learning how to play
It can help you make lots of friends all around.
Sometimes help you not worry on stress.
Have fun!!
Images [ 5 or more]
How to play
In the game the cards we use are called units and each unit has a grade of 0,1,2, and 3. To see the grade of that unit look at the top left of the card.
 There are 6 circles in the front when you play. So to start the game each player needs to put a grade 0 in the middle of the circles. Then to start the game the players must say “Stand up Vanguard” and flip the card they placed in the middle face up.
To decide on who goes first play rock paper scissors then the winner will decide to go first or second.
To start off the game each player draws 5 cards from their deck and if they don’t like any of the cards in their hand the player can put a number of cards back to the deck, shuffle and redraw the number of cards that were put in the deck.
The goal of the game is to deal their opponent 6 damage whoever reaches 6 damage first loses.
How to deal damage
Attack the players middle circle or their vanguard circle to deal them damage during the battle phase. To attack turn the unit from vertical to horizontal position. Make sure your unit has a power greater than their vanguards power or equal to it. To see the power of that unit look at the bottom left of the card.
Note when you attack that is when you can do a drive check.
The different types of Zones 
The deck zone is where you put the deck.
The damage zone is where you put the cards when you take damage.
The drop zone in a zone where the cards you use to guard, send, or anything else go to that type of zone.
The bind zone is a zone where cards that are removed go to.
The trigger zone is where you reveal the top cards of your deck when you are doing your drive check & damage check.
The G zone is a place where you have your grade 4s.
Note you can only have 16 G units per deck and 4 G guardians per deck.
The 6 phases 
The stand phase where the player can turn all the cards they have from horizontal position to vertical position. But if a player uses an effect to stop them from standing you do not stand it.
The Draw phase is where you can draw a card from the deck.
The Ride phase is when the player can place another unit in the middle circle also known as the vanguard as long as that unit is one grade.
The main phase where you can decide what to do with your cards in that phase.
The battle is where you can attack the other players units with yours by turning them from vertical into horizontal position.
The end phase is where the player ends their turn and then the other person will begin their turn.
The requirements you need to play
A deck of 50 cards
A starting unit
The triggers
There are 4 types of triggers in Vanguard but your deck must have 16 triggers only so choose wisely. Always look at the top right of the card to see if you get the trigger.
Critical trigger - allows you to deal an extra damage to your opponent. You can also give a unit the critical while giving another unit the power boost of 5000.
Draw tigger - allows you to draw an additional card from the deck.
Heal trigger - allows you to recover one damage from your damage from your damage zone as long as you have more damage then your opponent equal damage or your damage is equal.
Stand trigger - allows you to stand up a unit in a rear-guard circle. Like the critical you can also give the power to another unit of your choice.
Each trigger gives a unit a boost of 5000 so you can choose who to give that power to. 
The drive check & damage check
These checks only happen during the battle phase when a player deals the other damage. 
The player who deals the damage to their opponent gets to do a drive check, that person can reveal the top card of their deck and add it to their hand. 
The Damage check is when you take damage reveal the top card of your deck and put it in the damage zone.
Note these checks is where your triggers can activate only. Even if you draw a trigger it will not activate because you didn’t get that trigger during a drive check or damage check. Only the vanguard can do the checks not the rearguards unless they have a skill that can do it.
There is no limit to the number of cards you can have in your hand.
The triggers will not activate unless they are from the same clan as vanguard.
The Rearguard circles
The Rearguard circles are circles around the vanguard circle and in those circles you can call units from your hand to the field but as long as there grade is equal to or less then the vanguard.
Note if there is a unit in a Rearguard circle and you want to put a new unit on the spot you can do that but the unit that was on that spot has to go to the drop zone.
The units symbols 
Every unit has a symbol on them that symbol can be seen on the top left of the card under their grade.
The boost symbol only grades 0 and 1 can do where they can boost their power to another unit that is in front of them. For example a unit with 5000 + another with 7000 power makes 12000.
The intercept symbol only grade 2s have it allows them to go in the guardian circle from the Rearguard circle in the front row.
The twin drive symbol only grade 3s have but it only works if they are in the vanguard circle. The twin drive allows them to look at the two cards of your deck in a drive check during battle instead of one card.
The guardian circle 
The guardian circle only works for the battle phase. When your opponent attacks you have the option to decide to guard their attack or not. The unit has a shield on the left side right near the middle of the card and you can use a unit from your hand that has that shield to protect you from there attack. 
Here is an example if there attack power is 10000, you have a 7000 power from your vanguard you can use a shield of 5000  and that will make your power into 12000 making it stronger then their attack to protect yourself.
The sentinel units
The sentinel units are another type of unit you can use for the guardian circle but you can only have 4 sentinels in a deck. 
The skills 
There those that have skills and those that don’t and here is what you need to know about how to use them.
The Auto skill allows units to use that skill during battle or main phase.
The Active skill allows units to use the skill before the battle phase
The Continuous skill allows the unit to keep using that skill as long as that unit stays on the field.
The GB skills only work if there are face up G units in the G zone.
Note some of these skills can work on vanguard circle or rearguard circle.
The types of icons 
Some units have icons that you need to do in order to use those skills.
Counter-blast is where you select a unit from the damage and flip it face down.
Soul-blast is when you remove a number of cards from the soul and send them to the drop zone. The soul is the number of cards that are under the current that unit is on top.
Counter-charge is where you select a unit in the damage zone and flip it from face down to face up.
Soul-charge is where you put the top cards of your deck underneath the vanguard.
The G units 
The G units are grade 4s but both players need to have grade 3 in the vanguard circle to use them. There power gets added from the vanguards power and takes the vanguards names as its own and makes it a heart.
They have a symbol that allows them to reveal the top 3 cards of the deck, like any other check it only works during the battle phase.
At the end of the turn put the G units you used back in the G zone face up.
The G guardians are units that you can use only in the guardian circle, these units are for extra protection for your vanguard but to use them you need to send a heal trigger to the drop zone.
Note like other G units the those guardians also go into the G zone.
G assist 
The G assist works only if you don’t have a card to ride on the vanguard during your ride phase. Show your hand to your opponent and look at the top 5 cards of your deck. Pick one unit that is one grade higher then your vanguard, remove two cards from your hand and two G units from the G zone once you do this.
Clans
A clan is the type of card of what that unit is to find out what clan are they from look at the bottom right. Its best to know this so you can build a deck based on that clan.
The fonts
Cormorant Garamond
Audiowide
The episodes 
If you want to learn more about the game and understand it better there is a series of it on youtube search up “cardfight Vanguard” to see the series.


